# Create Training and Test Sets

#### Overview[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Create_Training_and_Test_Sets&action=edit&section=1> "Edit section: Overview")]

Ensembles are enumerated and selected using a set of known active and inactive compounds, called a "training set". However, evaluating the classification performance of a knowledge-based model on the training set will generally provide an overly optimistic estimate of the model's ability to correctly distinguish active and inactive molecules. Typically, the classification performance of a trained model is more realistically evaluated using a set of independent molecules with known active and inactive compounds, called a "test set". In practice, a larger set of compounds are randomly split into training and test sets. 

#### The Splitter Mode[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Create_Training_and_Test_Sets&action=edit&section=2> "Edit section: The Splitter Mode")]

The "splitter" mode of the ensemble builder application randomly splits a collection of compounds into training and test sets. To perform the split, you must have an input file that conforms to the standards outlined in the [Input](</mediawiki/index.php/Input> "Input") section. Usage information can be generated by typing `ensemblebuilder splitter` on the command line. 
    
    
    <split> Complete parameter list:
    
        --input : (required) csv file to split into training and test sets
          Columns should be as follows:
    
              id, status, receptor_1, receptor_2, ..., receptor_N
            CH44,      1,       -9.7,       -9.3, ...,      -10.2
            ZN44,      0,       -6.6,       -6.1, ...,       -6.8
    
           id is a unique molecular identifier
           status takes a value of '1' if the molecule is active and '0' otherwise.
          receptor_1 through receptor_N are docking scores.
    
         --training_fraction : (optional) The fraction of input active molecules allocated to the training set,
          e.g. 0.50. Defaults to allocate half to the training set.
    
         --decoy_to_active : (optional) The decoy to active ratio to establish in the  training and validation
          sets. Defaults to maintain the input file ratio.

**\--input** : Example input can be found [here](<https://github.com/rvswift/EB/blob/master/data/andr_merged.csv>), and is described in greater detail [here](</mediawiki/index.php/Input> "Input"). 

**\--training_fraction** : The application randomly selects this fraction of actives from the **\--input** set and allocates them to the training set. The remaining actives are allocated to the test set. 

**\--decoy_to_active** : Each active selected is paired with a number of decoy, or inactive, molecules determined by this flag. For example, if a value of 10 is specified, then 10 inactive compounds will be paired with each active. 

**output** : Two files are produced: 

    training_set.csv
    test_set.csv

If splitter is run without specifying values for the **\--training_fraction** or **\--decoy_to_active** flags, actives in the **\--input** set will randomly be split and the decoy to active ratio in the **\--input** set will be preserved. 

#### Example[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Create_Training_and_Test_Sets&action=edit&section=3> "Edit section: Example")]

The example input file, [input.csv](<https://github.com/rvswift/EB/blob/master/data/andr_merged.csv>), contains 112 active and 12681 inactive compounds, giving a decoy to active ratio of ~56. Running ensemble builder in the splitter mode with default values for the --training_fraction and --decoy_to_active flags: 
    
    
    ensemblebuilder splittter --input input.csv

produces [training_set.csv](<https://github.com/rvswift/EB/blob/master/data/training_set.csv>) and [test_set.csv](<https://github.com/rvswift/EB/blob/master/data/test_set.csv>), which each contain 112 active compounds and 6,272 inactive or decoy compounds and have decoy to active ratios of ~56. If you perform the example yourself, the compounds in the training and test sets will be different, since the active and decoy selection is random. However, the numbers of active and decoy compounds in each set should be the same.
