# Evaluate VS Performance

#### Overview[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Evaluate_VS_Performance&action=edit&section=1> "Edit section: Overview")]

After the ensemble builder application has been used to select several ensembles, it is useful to know how well they classify active and inactive compounds. Performance analysis based on metrics derived from the [ROC curve](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Receiver_operating_characteristic>) can be carried out by running the ensemble builder application in the postanalysis mode. The following analysis output is available: 

    Tables reporting AUC and ROC enrichment factors along with their associated confidence 95% intervals and maximum values.

    Tables reporting the differences in AUC and ROC enrichment factors, between pairs of ensembles, along with their associated 95% confidence intervals and p-values.

    PDF files illustrating ROC curves of the input ensembles and their constituent target conformations.

    CSV files that contain for each compound, a rank and status label, an ensemble score, and the corresponding true and false positive fraction values.

Usage information can be generated by typing `ensemblebuilder postanalysis` on the command line, which results in the following output. 
    
    
    <postanalyze> Complete parameter list:
    
      --input : (required) csv file to split into training and test sets
        Columns should be as follows:
    
            id, status, receptor_1, receptor_2, ..., receptor_N
          CH44,      1,       -9.7,       -9.3, ...,      -10.2
          ZN44,      0,       -6.6,       -6.1, ...,       -6.8
    
        id is a unique molecular identifier
        status takes a value of '1' if the molecule is active and '0' otherwise.
        receptor_1 through receptor_N are docking scores.
    
      --outname : (required) the prefix of the outputfiles.
    
      --ensemble_list : (required) a list of csv files that contain the queries in the
        ensemble. For example, 'Ensemble_1_queries.csv Ensemble_2_queries.csv
        Ensemble_3_queries.csv ...'
    
      --compare : (optional) Compare the virtual screening results for the ensembles
        specified after the '--ensemble_list' flag. No more than two ensembles may be
        specified at once.
    
      --fpf : (optional) Evaluate ensemble performance at the set of specified FPF values.
        By default, values of '0.0001', '0.001', '0.01', and '0.05' are considered, if
        they are defined.
    
      --plot : (optional) Generate ROC plots of the input ensembles and their members.
    
      --write_roc : (optional) if the '--write_roc' flag is set, a 'ROC_DATA'  directory
        will be created, & ROC data points will be written there for each ensemble. The
        default is not to write ROC data points.

#### Command Line Flags[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Evaluate_VS_Performance&action=edit&section=2> "Edit section: Command Line Flags")]

**\--input** : Example input can be found [here](<https://github.com/rvswift/EB/blob/master/data/andr_merged.csv>), and is described in greater detail [here](</mediawiki/index.php/Input> "Input"). 

**\--outname** : (Required) Depending on the selected options, different output files will be generated, and the --outname option specifies the prefix of these files. 

**\--ensemble_list** : (Required) A list of csv files that specify the ensembles whose classification performance will be analyzed. 

**\--fpf** : (Optional) A list of false positive fraction values at which ROC enrichment factors will be calculated for each of the ensembles specified by --ensemble_list. 

**\--plot** : (optional) This flag doesn't require a value. If it is set, PDF files of the ensembles specified by the --ensemble_list flag will be produced. 

**\--write_roc** : (optional) This flag doesn't require a value. If it is set, a directory called "ROC_DATA" will be created, and CSV file for each ensemble specified by the --ensemlbe_size flag will be produced. Each CSV file will contain rank and status labels, ensemble scores, and the corresponding true and false positive fraction values for each compound in the input file. 

#### Examples[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Evaluate_VS_Performance&action=edit&section=3> "Edit section: Examples")]

[Example 1](</mediawiki/index.php/Example_1> "Example 1"): Generate a table describing the performance of each ensemble 

[Example 2](</mediawiki/index.php/Example_2> "Example 2"): Compare the performance of two ensembles 

[Example 3](</mediawiki/index.php/Example_3> "Example 3"): Generate ROC plots of one or more input ensembles. 

[Example 4](</mediawiki/index.php/Example_4> "Example 4"): Generate ROC data of one or more input ensembles
