# Fast heuristic

### Overview[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Fast_heuristic&action=edit&section=1> "Edit section: Overview")]

Like the [slow heuristic method](</mediawiki/index.php/Slow_heuristic> "Slow heuristic"), the fast heuristic method solves the [ensemble selection problem](</mediawiki/index.php/Training_Ensembles#Overview:_The_Ensemble_Selection_Problem> "Training Ensembles") recursively. The method constructs ensembles of increasing size by successively merging conformations of decreasing performance. Relative to the [exhaustive method](</mediawiki/index.php/Exhaustive> "Exhaustive"), the approximation reduces the number of ensembles that are constructed. For example, if there are N target conformations, the exhaustive method constructs all of the possible 2N - 1 ensembles, while the fast heuristic constructs only 2N - 1 ensembles. For larger ensembles, the number of combinatorial possibilities that are neglected increases, and the likelihood that the fast heuristic is unable to identify the optimal solution likewise increases: the fast heuristic method trades a guarantee of identifying the optimal ensemble for reduced computational cost. Usage information can be generated by typing `ensemblebuilder fast heuristic` on the command line, which results in the following output. 
    
    
    <fastheuristic> Complete parameter list
    
        --input : (required) csv file to split into training and test sets
          Columns should be as follows:
    
              id, status, receptor_1, receptor_2, ..., receptor_N
            CH44,      1,       -9.7,       -9.3, ...,      -10.2
            ZN44,      0,       -6.6,       -6.1, ...,       -6.8
    
          id is a unique molecular identifier
          status takes a value of '1' if the molecule is active and '0' otherwise.
          receptor_1 through receptor_N are docking scores.
    
        --outname : (required) the prefix of the outputfiles.
    
        --ensemble_size : (required) Specifies the maximum ensemble size  to consider.
    
        --fpf : (optional) Rank ensembles by the number of unique active molecules found
          above the specified value. Ensembles will be ranked by AUC if a value     of '1'
          is given. The default is to use the smallest defined false positive fraction.

### Command Line Flags[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Fast_heuristic&action=edit&section=2> "Edit section: Command Line Flags")]

**\--input** : (Required) Example input can be found [here](<https://github.com/rvswift/EB/blob/master/data/andr_merged.csv>), and is described in greater detail [here](</mediawiki/index.php/Input> "Input"). 

**\--outname** : (Required) CSV files that contain the compositions of optimally performing ensembles at discrete sizes are produced. The names of these files have the form "prefix_#_queries.csv". The --outname flag provides the prefix field, and # is given by the ensemble size. For example, if --outname is set to "exh," then the best performing ensembles of size 1 through N will be written to the files exh_1_queries.csv, exh_2_queries.csv, ..., exh_N_queries.csv. The maximum ensemble size is determined by the --ensemble_size flag. 

**\--ensemble_size** : (Required) Optimally performing ensembles up to the value given by --ensemble_size will be determined. For example, if --ensemble_size is set to 5, then optimally performing ensembles of size 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 will be determined. 

**\--fpf** : (Optional) Ensembles are selected by optimizing a classification performance metric based on the [Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Receiver_operating_characteristic>). If the --fpf flag is set to "1," the ensemble that yields the largest [AUC](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Receiver_operating_characteristic#Area_under_the_curve>), or area under the ROC curve, will be selected at each size. If the --fpf flag is set to a value less than 1, the ensemble that yields the largest ROC enrichment factor at the specified fpf will be selected. The ROC enrichment (EF) is given EF = TPF/FPF. If a value is not specified, the application will use the smallest defined FPF. 

### Example[edit](</mediawiki/index.php?title=Fast_heuristic&action=edit&section=3> "Edit section: Example")]

To generate ensembles of size 1 through 2, optimized to produce the largest EF at a false positive fraction of 0.01, run the following command. 
    
    
    ensemblebuilder slowheuristic --input training_set.cv --outname fh --ensemble_size 2 --fpf 0.01

If the command above is run with the example training set found [here](<https://github.com/rvswift/EB/blob/master/data/training_set.csv>), which contains docking scores from 10 receptor conformations, 2 files (fh_1_queries.csv, and fh_2_queries.csv) should be produced. They should contain the following contents. 

    **exh_1_queries.csv** : receptor_2
    **exh_2_queries.csv** : receptor_2, receptor_6

Each file contains the receptor conformations that produce the largest EF at a FPF of 0.01 of the indicated size. For example, receptor_2 and receptor_6 make up the two-membered ensemble that produces the largest EF at a FPF of 0.01 when the training set is screened.
